A fixed income instrument is a stream of cash flows.
A cash flow is a time and cash flow amount.

Control Shift A is a built-in Excel macro that supplies the argument text of a function.

The function backslash T M X dot instrument creates an instrument.

Hold down the control and shift key, then press A to see the argument text.

Release the control and shift key then Press Enter to call the function with its arguments.

Oh dear! Pound value indicates a problem with the function arguments.

Let's go to the function wizard to get more information.

All of the arguments are pound values. 
Well of course they are!
Excel thinks time and cash are defined names, but we haven't yet defined them!

Help on this function unceremoniously deposits you into the C++ source code for the function being called from Excel,
in lieu of proper documentation.

Control Shift B is a rather shoddy macro that will supply default argument values.
Enter equal backslash T M X dot instrument without the trailing left parentheses, then press enter.
The number you see is the register id Excel uses to keep track of user defined functions.
Hold down the control and shift key, then press B to see the default arguments.
The peculiar red zero x followed by inscrutable digits is the pointer to the underlying C++ instrument object.

Most Excel add-in libraries have string handles that map to the underlying C++ object.
This require a big O of log N lookup. This library uses the 64 bits of the I treble E floating point
number and casts them to a 64 bit pointer.  On operation that takes only a few machine instructions.

If you know something about computers, you may be wary of using pointers.
No need to worry your pretty little head. Only valid handles are permitted,
so nothing can go wrong, go wrong, go wrong.

<screech>

Terribly sorry! Where were we?
Oh, handles. By convention, functions returning a handle start with a backslash character.
Often they have a corresponding function without the leading backslash that returns the
content of the object.

The function T M X dot instrument, no backslash, takes a handle and returns a two row array of times and cash flow amounts.

We can use those to create a new instrument.

The values in the new instrument are the same as that of the original instrument

We can edit the default argument values and see them propagate to the new instrument.

However, we can not edit the output values.

The control shift C macros make it convenient to do this.
Select a cell with the register id for backslash T M X dot instrument and press control shift C.

This pastes the defaults into editable cells directly below the functions and provides references to them in the function arguments.
We can inspect the contents of the object and see they are updated when modifying argument values.




the lazy bleeder, be arsed, roustabout 